Docs 3386 update dataset articles new (#1613)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALEUIReference/Storage/Pools/Datasets/EncryptionUISCALE.md

![DatasetTreeWithLockIcons](/images/SCALE/22.12/DatasetTreeWithLockIcons.png "Dataset Tree Table Encryption Icons")

{{< include file="/_includes/EncryptionIconsSCALE.md" type="page" >}}

## Pool Encryption

The **Encryption** option on the **[Pool Manager]({{< relref "PoolManagerScreens.md" >}})** screen sets encryption for the pool and root dataset. The **Download Encryption Key** warning window displays when you create the pool. It downloads a JSON file to your downloads folder. 

![DownloadPoolEncryptionKey](/images/SCALE/22.12/DownloadPoolEncryptionKey.png "Download Pool Encryption Key")

{{< hint warning >}}
All datasets created in an encrypted pool have encryption. You cannot create an unencrypted dataset in an encrypted pool.

All pool-level encryption is key-based encryption. You cannot use passphrase encryption at the pool/root level.

Keep the key file in a secure location where you can back it up and keep it protected. If you lose the encryption key you cannot unlock the pool and that can result in unrecoverable data.
{{< /hint >}}

## Export Key Options 

> The **ZFS Encryption** widget for root datasets with encryption include the **Export All Keys** and **Export Key** options, but do now include the **Lock** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **ZFS Encryption** widget for root datasets with encryption includes the **Export All Keys** and **Export Key** options but does not include the **Lock** option.
```

It allows you to change the encryption type from or to key or passphrase, and the related settings.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}
The **Edit Encryption Options for *datasetname*** window opens with the current dataset encryption settings displayed. 
The encryption setting options are the same as those provided on the **Add Dataset > Encryption Options**.

![EditEncryptionOptionsKeyTypeWindow](/images/SCALE/22.12/EditEncryptionOptionsKeyTypeWindow.png "Encryption Options Key Type Window")

{{< include file="/_includes/EncryptionSettings.md" type="page" >}}
{{< /expand >}}
## Lock Dataset Dialog
**Lock** displays on encrypted non-root parent or child datasets **ZFS Encryption** widgets. 
An encrypted child that inherits encryption from a non-root parent does not see the **Lock** option on its **ZFS Encryption** widget because the lock state is controlled by the parent dataset for that child dataset. 
The locked icon for child datasets that inherit encryption is the locked by ancestor icon.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}
**Lock** opens the **Lock Dataset** confirmation dialog with the option to **Force unmount** and **Lock** the dataset. 

> **Force unmount** disconnects any client system that is accessing the dataset via sharing protocol. Do not select this option unless you are certain the dataset is not used or accessed by a share, application or other system service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Force unmount** disconnects any client system that is accessing the dataset via sharing protocol. Do not select this option unless you are certain the dataset is not used or accessed by a share, application, or other system services.
```

![LockDatasetDialog](/images/SCALE/22.12/LockDatasetDialog.png "Lock Dataset Dialog")

After locking a dataset, the **ZFS Encryption** screen displays **Locked** as the **Current State** and adds the **Unlock** option.
{{< /expand >}}

## Unlock Datasets Screen
**Unlock** on the **ZFS Encryption** widget displays for locked datasets that are not child datasets that inherit encryption from the parent dataset. 
**Unlock** opens the **Unlock Datasets** screen that allows you to unlock the selected dataset, and to unlock the child datasets at the same time.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}
If you select a non-root parent dataset, the unlock screen includes two **Dataset Passphrase** fields for two datasets, the non-root parent and the child of that non-root parent, and the option to **Unlock Child Encrypted Roots** pre-selected.

![UnlockDatasetsScreenNonRootParent](/images/SCALE/22.12/UnlockDatasetsScreenNonRootParent.png "Unlock Non-Root Parent and Child Datasets Screen")

> If you select child dataset of the root dataset or of a non-root parent, the screen includes only the one **Dataset Passphrase** field, and the option to **Unlock Child Encrypted Roots** pre-selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you select a child dataset of the root dataset or of a non-root parent, the screen includes only the one **Dataset Passphrase** field, and the option to **Unlock Child Encrypted Roots** pre-selected.
```
